# s 
22
## url
https://silo.tips/download/res83321
## tiny url
https://tinyurl.com/self-serve-platform-s22
## archive url
https://bit.ly/self-serve-platform-s22
## title
Create A Road Map For A Real-Time, Agile, Self-Service Data Platform
## source code
no
## example
yes
## source type 
Practitioner Audience Article
## author type
Practitioner
## references

**AXIAL CODING TRACE:**
``` python
s22 = CClass(source, "s22", values={
    "title": "Create A Road Map For A Real-Time, Agile, Self-Service Data Platform",
    "url": "https://silo.tips/download/res83321",
    "archive url": "https://bit.ly/self-serve-platform-s22",
    "tiny url": "https://tinyurl.com/self-serve-platform-s22",
    "author type": "Practitioner",
    "type": "Practitioner Audience Article",
    "example": True,
    "source code": False})
```

# coding

> Adopt the Building Blocks of A real-time Data platform

> A real-time data platform is designed to anticipate change; new technologies underpin the architecture to enable the agile development of dynamically changing data requirements. Your next-generation data management platform needs (see Figure 3):›An in-memory data platform to deliver data at the speed of thought. Firms need in-memory data to support the new generation of business applications; it’s critical to enabling real-time data access, processing big data quickly, offering new customer experiences, and serving customers in all of their mobile moments.7 Data stored in-memory can be accessed orders of magnitude faster than that stored on traditional disks. top vendors that support in-memory technologies for customer data management platforms include Gigaspaces, iBM, oracle, sAp, sAs, software AG, and VMware.›Data virtualization to enable real-time integration of disparate sources. Data virtualization integrates disparate data sources in real time or near-real time to meet demands for analytics and transactional data.8 Data virtualization integrates internal and external data sources such as hadoop, NosQl, and enterprise DW platforms; packaged, custom, mainframe, and legacy apps; and social platforms. leading vendors supporting data virtualization solutions include cisco, Denodo technologies, iBM, informatica, oracle, and sAp.
For EntErprisE ArchitEcturE proFEssionAlsCreate A Road Map For A Real-Time, Agile, Self-Service Data PlatformDecember 16, 2015© 2015 Forrester research, inc. unauthorized copying or distributing is a violation of copyright law. citations@forrester.com or +1 866-367-73786Road Map: The Data Management Playbook›Hadoop to store and process large data sets. hadoop, an open source initiative under version 2.0 of the Apache license, delivers a distributed and scalable data processing platform to support big data.9 it supports the batch processing of analytics by parallel-processing very large sets of data, which can run into the hundreds of terabytes or even petabytes, using clusters on commodity servers.›The integration of disparate big data sources. Big data integration delivers a comprehensive, unified view of the business and its customers, employees, and products. Apache projects such as camel, Flume, Forrest, hcatalog, pig, and sqoop help with big data integration based upon open source projects. in addition, traditional data integration vendors such as iBM, informatica, pentaho, sAp, sAs, and talend extend their existing data integration platforms to support big data sources.›A semantic layer to maintain the context and business language of data. semantic technologies shape and orchestrate data, continuously remodeling master data and metadata for relevant customer and business views. Graph and triple-store technologies from Marklogic and Neo technology (Neo4j) and open source projects such as Apache Giraph and Github titan maintain data relationships. Data profiling tools such as cambridge semantics help explore and model data semantically.10

**OPEN CODING TRACE:**

application_build_function

in_place_consumption

integration_service

unified_batch_stream_processing_service

data_source_ingestion

master_data_management

metadata_management

agility

**AXIAL CODING TRACE:**
added:
``` python
    
    in_place_consumption

    integration_service

    unified_batch_stream_processing_service
    
    data_source_ingestion
    
    mdm

    metadata_management
    
    agility
    
    application_build_function
    
```






























