# s 
28
## url
https://dzone.com/articles/top-challenges-in-data-mesh-and-how-a-data-product
## tiny url
https://tinyurl.com/self-serve-platform-s28
## archive url
https://bit.ly/self-serve-platform-s28
## title
Applying the Data Mesh Approach Through a Data Product Platform 
## source code
no
## example
yes
## source type 
Practitioner Audience Article
## author type
Practitioner
## references

**AXIAL CODING TRACE:**
``` python
s28 = CClass(source, "s28", values={
    "title": "Applying the Data Mesh Approach Through a Data Product Platform ",
    "url": "https://dzone.com/articles/top-challenges-in-data-mesh-and-how-a-data-product",
    "archive url": "https://bit.ly/self-serve-platform-s28",
    "tiny url": "https://tinyurl.com/self-serve-platform-s28",
    "author type": "Practitioner",
    "type": "Practitioner Audience Article",
    "example": True,
    "source code": False})
```

# coding

> Applying the Data Mesh Approach Through a Data Product Platform 

> An appropriate data product platform not only adheres to decentralization but also addresses all the inconsistencies discussed above. Furthermore, it captures data from varied sources and delivers the data products, providing a holistic and real-time view of the analytical and operational workloads. 
Not to miss, it prepares the semantic definition of all data products. Next, it lays down the governance policies and sets the data ingestion methods with a vision to prepare and secure the data as per the regulations.   
While we are at it, existing data and analytical products should scale up to support mesh architecture. This is because building a data management landscape from scratch just to support mesh attracts unforeseen costs. Mesh architecture covers all modules in the data management landscape, such as integration, virtualization, preparation, masking, governance orchestration, cataloguing, and others. 
Next, a reliable data product platform should enable the secure distribution of data to a number of domains. There’s Talend, a popular name in the data products segment. It offers great integration spanning different system landscape environments such as on-premise, cloud, and hybrid. Given its prior experience in building data management products, Talend offers broader data engineering capabilities. It provides a wide range of connectors to diverse data sources.
K2View, for example, integrates data from multiple sources into different data products. The data mesh platform strikes the right balance by enabling the centralization of data modelling, governance, and cataloguing while decentralizing the data creating and sharing ownership to respective domains. It supports both analytical and operational workloads. They are already popular for successfully implementing micro-DB in their fabric product which provides a single and accurate high-level view of all domains.  
Informatica, which is one of the pioneering data management products, offers excellent integration and support for different architectures. It offers you the ability to scale to complex integration scenarios.  
An ideal data product platform should deliver a real-time Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) solution, thereby supporting multi-dimensional data automation and abstraction.  

**OPEN CODING TRACE:**

access_control_management

data_transformation_orchestration

infrastructure_as_code

data_governance_function

data_catalog

secure_dp

**AXIAL CODING TRACE:**
added:
``` python
    data_governance_function
    integration_service
    access_control_management
    data_transformation_orchestration
    infrastructure_as_code
    data_catalog
    secure_dp
```







































